---
title: Critical Analysis of the Hybrid Work Mode & Its Related Disconnecting Rights
image: /assets/images/WORK FROM HOME.jpg
author: Ruiqi Li
categories:
  - human resources management
layout: post
---

Hybrid work models, integrating both in-office and remote work, have gained traction among numerous globally recognized companies. This approach offers employees across the organizational hierarchy unparalleled flexibility, enabling them to adapt their work environment in response to their individual needs. However, this evolving paradigm also introduces notable challenges. The distinction between work and personal time is becoming increasingly ambiguous, often resulting in extended work hours. Furthermore, employees' personal time can be intrusively punctuated by organizational online tools. To address these issues, companies need to proactively adapt to ensure both the well-being and productivity of their teams, even in a dispersed setting. An in-depth evaluation of the factors that make a hybrid model successful is essential. Equally crucial is understanding and upholding the rights and autonomy of employees within this framework. Recommendations should emphasize a harmonious balance between the advantages of hybrid work arrangements and an employee's right to disconnect post work hours

### Key Organizational Factors Lead To the Successful Working Model
**Transformational Leadership shapes corporate culture**

Under a successful hybrid working model, employees are given more freedom to choose when to work and how to participate into work, and transformational leadership then become the key to the success. As more employees transition to working from home and companies look to shift to digital workspaces, managers will adapt to the new management context of hybrid work, including the shift from supervisory thinking to employee self-driven thinking instead of a top-down approach to driving decision-making (Gottardello,2022). Both employers and employees abide by the spirit of the enthusiasm to work and self-commitment. Employers fully trust employees allowing employees to arrange their own working hours and formal their own agendas. The action on giving employees more autonomy remark a shift in traditional leadership. Transformational and charismatic leadership could be applied by creating a workplace environment that prioritises employee growth and excellent performance (Gottardello, 2022).  Hybrid model success therefore depends on a new leadership model that inspires employees develop their own intrinsic motivation to work, who feel trusted and cared for to maximize their potential to achieve a higher level of performance.

Furthermore, well-functioned hybrid work is only possible if the organisation's culture climate is inclusive and supportive. The leadership transformation also promotes an influential corporate culture by embodying the purpose and authenticity, creating a mechanism of dissent, and creating a conversation about value (Ferreira et.al, 2021; Kuknor & Bhattacharya, 2020).  To achieve the success of the hybrid working model, organisations ensure that all employees have a consistent experience at work, including full participation and equal attention.  The diversity and inclusion on organisational culture can help businesses maintain transparency and drive innovative outcomes, it create a positive work environment and a thriving company culture where every employee feels valued and recognized (Jandrić, 2022; Mazur, 2014). Companies are starting to focus more on promoting mutual support at all levels to ensure that employees remain comfortable and integrated when disconnected from the traditional office environment or working online alone. For example, companies are more often bring their employees together for personal and professional development activities during and outside normal company hours. Leaders and front-line managers maintain continuous and good interaction and communication with employees under remote conditions. Employees are more likely to be satisfied with clear recognition what they are trying to achieve and the mission of the company. Therefore, transformational Leadership and corresponding- formed will lead to the success of hybrid work. 

**Close cooperation to stronger connections**

In the realm of successful hybrid work models, employees benefit from the autonomy to decide their work schedules and participation methods. Transformational leadership emerges as a cornerstone of this success. As the shift to remote work intensifies and companies pivot towards digital platforms, management styles must evolve. Rather than a top-down directive approach, the emphasis is now on fostering self-initiative and autonomy among employees (Gottardello, 2022). The relationship between employers and employees is anchored in mutual trust and commitment. By granting employees the latitude to set their own hours and agendas, employers signify a departure from conventional leadership paradigms. Adopting transformational and charismatic leadership styles, they cultivate environments conducive to employee development and exceptional performance (Gottardello, 2022). The success of the hybrid model hinges on leadership that not only trusts but also nurtures employee intrinsic motivation, empowering them to reach peak performance levels.

Moreover, the efficacy of hybrid work is contingent upon an organizational culture that's both inclusive and nurturing. Such leadership metamorphosis champions a potent corporate ethos, characterized by purpose, authenticity, fostering constructive dissent, and underpinning values (Ferreira et.al, 2021; Kuknor & Bhattacharya, 2020). For a hybrid model to flourish, it's imperative that all employees, regardless of their work setup, are accorded equal attention and opportunities. Embracing diversity and inclusion fortifies transparency, spurs innovation, and engenders a culture where every individual feels acknowledged (Jandrić, 2022; Mazur, 2014). Contemporary companies are increasingly prioritizing collective support, ensuring that employees, even in remote setups, remain engaged and connected. Initiatives such as personal and professional development sessions, both during and outside standard work hours, are becoming commonplace. Communication, especially from leaders and managers, remains paramount, ensuring clarity in organizational objectives and employee recognition. In essence, transformational leadership, coupled with a supportive organizational culture, paves the way for hybrid work's triumph. 

**Keywords related to Employee Right to Disconnect from Work**

Safeguarding employees' right to disconnect is pivotal in ensuring a harmonious work-life balance, ultimately enhancing their overall well-being. Baker & Chan-Ahuja (2022) highlight the significance of crafting an effective virtual workspace to augment employees' sense of well-being and belonging. Nevertheless, the article's emphasis on three specific strategies and subsequent adaptions might not be as efficacious as suggested. Moreover, there's a potential that these strategies might inadvertently infringe upon employees' right to disconnect.

**Consistency**

Ensuring alignment in organizational and employee practices is crucial. Baker & Chan-Ahuja (2022) posit that motivation is more often intrinsic to employees rather than a result of managerial oversight. As a consequence, recruitment now places greater emphasis on skill alignment and cultural compatibility. Given this, job aspirants must actively align themselves with the prospective company's culture. Established cultural norms within a company often offer employees a set of values, either instinctively or consciously, fostering a sense of identity with the organizational culture (Buchanan & Huczynski, 2019). Hence, if an organization's culture emphasizes relentless competition and efficiency, its employees might feel compelled, whether willingly or under subtle pressure, to forego their right to disconnect in order to assimilate or meet the cultural expectations.

**Communication**

In discussions about "communication", Baker & Chan-Ahuja (2022) note that teams often convene online for overarching business discussions and to set agendas for upcoming weekly meetings. Outside these structured interactions, there's a significant dependence on communication tools. Such reliance can inadvertently obscure the demarcation between work and personal time. Employees might find themselves tethered to these communication devices even during their leisure hours, a trend corroborated by Beňo (2021), who observed office practices encouraging perpetual communication. Informal interactions, where employees delve into non-work-related conversations and forge deeper personal connections, are undoubtedly a positive facet of this dynamic. However, this very positivity can further entrench their attachment to these communication tools. The resulting entwining of professional and personal spaces through these devices might inadvertently lead employees to relinquish their right to disconnect.

**Connection**

The article delineates several strategies for fostering "connection" within the organization. Among these, setting aside time for social activities and leaders using weekly meetings to engage in non-work-related discussions with employees are notable (Baker & Chan-Ahuja, 2022). While championing such practices, especially during the pandemic, is commendable, integrating non-work discussions and mandated social events into regular work hours can strain employees' schedules. The time allocated for weekly meetings might be constricted due to these additional non-work discussions, potentially leading to postponements in work-related projects. For instance, if an employee is on the brink of a project deadline, they might be unable to promptly discuss it with their team due to the precedence of non-work topics. Consequently, they may need to extend their working hours to accommodate delayed tasks or reconvene with teams to address pending matters post these obligatory social interactions. Such cascading delays can inadvertently impede employees' ability to disconnect from work seamlessly.

### Recommendations 
**Policymaking** 

Prioritizing the establishment of a clear and transparent "right-to-disconnect" policy is imperative. Engaging employees in its formulation not only garners support but also tailors the policy to department-specific operations and processes. Organizations should ensure that both they and their employees are well-versed in, and compliant with, their respective legal obligations. This includes the understanding that employees have the right to decline work or work-related activities outside of standard business hours. Employers must duly respect this right to disconnect (Pegoraro et al., 2020). Setting distinct boundaries between professional tasks and employees' personal lives is essential. This can be achieved by delineating clear daily work schedules and widely disseminating the policy among staff.

In addition, policies should address challenges that multinational corporations might encounter in a hybrid work setting, such as collaborating on projects across various time zones. Organizations should offer flexibility, anchored in fairness, to ensure that employees are appropriately compensated for any exceptional breaches of their disconnection rights. A well-defined policy development process will enhance clarity and support its practical implementation. Crucially, leadership should exemplify adherence to these guidelines and encourage employees to actively oversee their enforcement.

**Organisation Culture building**

Beyond simply establishing a right to disconnect, organizations should collaboratively cultivate an "informed" company culture. In this context, "informed" denotes the dissemination of the company's cultural principles in such a way that employees can intuitively apply them across various tasks and interactions (Potočnik, 2022; Fu & Deshpande, 2014). To operationalize this, companies could collaborate with their technology departments to monitor the duration employees spend on office software. Should usage exceed recommended limits, gentle reminders could be dispatched. Complementary efforts might include displaying posters or other promotional materials that advocate for post-work family time. By heightening awareness around the importance of work-life balance, organizations can foster a more proactive approach among employees to exercise their right to disconnect.

**Set up a resolution team**

Organizations should establish a specialized team within the HR department dedicated to overseeing hybrid work models. This team's primary responsibilities would encompass executing and championing the aforementioned recommendations. These include upholding the company's disconnection policy, fostering the desired organizational culture, and addressing concerns related to the hybrid work model. Central to this team's mission is to empower employees to work flexibly, from any location, while ensuring they feel a sense of belonging in this evolving work paradigm (Potočnik, 2022).

Given the intricacies of hybrid work and the unpredictable nature of such environments, mutual support among employees becomes paramount. Encouraging positive help-seeking behaviors not only bolsters work performance and creativity but also augments employee well-being (Potočnik, 2022; Guest, 2017). With a clear understanding of processes and available support, employees can navigate challenges more effectively. It's crucial for teams to facilitate online networking opportunities, allowing employees to connect without impinging upon anyone's right to disconnect. Concurrently, collaboration with the technical department is essential to monitor employee satisfaction and work durations. This allows for timely interventions based on specific circumstances.

### Discussion

To guarantee the smooth functioning of an organization, it's paramount to foster an environment that promotes efficient collaboration and instills a sense of belonging among employees. A hallmark of successful hybrid working models is their ability to align with organizational operational needs while upholding the rights of every individual. For instance, a multinational tech firm might employ flexible working hours to accommodate its global workforce. By doing so, it not only ensures round-the-clock productivity but also respects individual employees' time zones and personal commitments.

Companies that exemplify social responsibility and a robust organizational culture go beyond mere recognition of these new working dynamics. They understand the potential pitfalls. Consider the case of a renowned software company that noticed increased burnout among its remote employees. Recognizing the changing landscape, they not only provided mental health resources but also introduced mandatory 'no-meeting' days to ensure a work-life balance. Such proactive measures underscore the importance of acknowledging the shifting distribution of employees' time in the face of evolving work modalities. It's essential for organizations to not only be aware of these changes but to take tangible steps in safeguarding employees' rights and well-being.

### References
- Baker, A., & Chan-Ahuja, S. (2022). Structure and flexibility: Two key elements of a successful virtual workplace. LSE Business Review. https://blogs.lse.ac.uk/businessreview/2022/02/21/structure-and-flexibility-two-keyelements-of-a-successful-virtual-workplace/ 
- Buchanan, D. A., & Huczynski, A. A. (2019). Organizational behaviour. Pearson UK. 
- Fu, W., & Deshpande, S. P. (2014). The impact of caring climate, job satisfaction, and organizational commitment on job performance of employees in a China’s insurance company. Journal of business ethics, 124(2), 339-349. 
- Gottardello, D. (2022). Week 2: Decision making [PowerPoint slides]. Blackboard Learn. https://www.learn.ed.ac.uk/ultra/courses/_100317_1/cl/outline 
- Guest, D. E. (2017). Human resource management and employee well‐being: Towards a new analytic framework. Human resource management journal, 27(1), 22-38. 
- Jakov, J. (2022). Week 8: Organisational Culture [PowerPoint slides]. Blackboard Learn. https://www.learn.ed.ac.uk/ultra/courses/_100317_1/cl/outline 
- Kuknor, S. C., & Bhattacharya, S. (2020). Inclusive leadership: new age leadership to foster organizational inclusion. European Journal of Training and Development. 
- Mazur, B. (2014). Building diverse and inclusive organizational culture-best practices: A case study of Cisco Co. Journal of Intercultural Management, 6(4.1), 169-179. 
- Pegoraro, F., Santos, E. A. P., Loures, E. D. F. R., & Laus, F. W. (2020). A hybrid model to support decision making in emergency department management. Knowledge-based systems, 203, 106148.
- Potočnik,K. (2022). Week 10: Wellbeing [PowerPoint slides]. Blackboard Learn. 
- https://www.learn.ed.ac.uk/ultra/courses/_100317_1/cl/outline 
- Potočnik,K. (2022). Week 9: Sensemaking [PowerPoint slides]. Blackboard Learn. 
- https://www.learn.ed.ac.uk/ultra/courses/_100317_1/cl/outline 
- Potočnik,K. (2022). Week 5 on Teams and Team Work [PowerPoint slides]. Blackboard 
- Learn. https://www.learn.ed.ac.uk/ultra/courses/_100317_1/cl/outline
