---
title: Multinational Enterprises and Its Related Corporate Social Responsibility 
image: /assets/images/shubham-beeharry-223969.jpg
author: Ruiqi Li
categories:
    - HR Management 
    - CSR
    - Multinational enterprises  
layout: post
---

    With the development of globalisation and the further deepening of the international market pattern, most multinational enterprises (MNEs) actively fulfil corporate social responsibility (CSR) by investing technological innovation capabilities, business advantages, and financial capital into the process of solving social or environmental problems. Active participation in CSR activities can help MNEs build brand image to gain consumer loyalty and shape a strong internal corporate culture. To achieve all those visions, International human resource management plays an irreplaceable role in the specific practice and system supervision of corporate social responsibility activities of MNEs. 

**Main Drivers**

    Creating a good brand image in the minds of the public is one of the main driving forces for MNEs to participate in CSR. For MNEs and their brands with innovative technology or rich capital, the public has already recognised their products and services and has higher expectations and concerns about corporate social responsibility. The rapid change of the digital age allows the public to have more ways to understand corporate information and will use more corporate social responsibility information as clues in the process of product evaluation and judgment. Brands positioned on CSR and integrating CSR strategies into their core business strategies can capture greater consumer benefits (Du et al., 2007). Adopting a strategic positioning for corporate social responsibility makes particular sense in attracting and retaining customer loyalty. For example, for multinational enterprises in the FMCG industry, consumers will make more use of CSR information as an important basis for product evaluation and purchase when purchasing goods. Consumers will show obvious favour and trust for companies that participate in corporate social responsibility (Das, 2022). Thus, MNEs will more likely carry out CSR activities at the level of brand strategy to capture public preference. 

    In addition, the vision of shaping an inclusive internal corporate culture also drives MNEs to engage in corporate social responsibility. This impetus is based on social identity theory assumes that individuals are happiest when they associate themselves with organisations with good reputations (Tajfel & Turner, 1986). Employees attempt to build or reinforce their positive self-concept by comparing the characteristics of their own organisation with those of the group to which they. Research suggests that if an enterprise can actively fulfil its social responsibilities, it will give employees a strong sense of belonging and identification with the enterprise (Sen et al., 2006). MNEs have subsidiaries in different countries and regions, and the fulfilment of corporate social responsibility helps to eliminate cultural differences and reflect a corporate culture of equal respect (Song, 2022). For example, Microsoft's top management fulfils the corporate social responsibility of encouraging the coexistence of diverse backgrounds and ideas, including fully respecting the labour results of employees, being open and respectful, actively encouraging innovation, and developing global employee exchange programs. Thus, it has formed a Microsoft corporate culture and values recognised by employees worldwide (Isac, Dobrin, Raphalalani, & Sonko, 2021). This company culture of inclusion, shaped by active corporate social responsibility, has helped make Microsoft a prestigious Multinational company. Employees will be more engaged in carrying out their responsibilities, willing to devote more time and energy actively, and more willing to contribute to improving the performance of the organisation as a response and return to the organisation if they believe that the company actively assumes social responsibility to employees.

**International Human Resource Management Involvement**

    International human resources management (IHRM) will be given the function of executing MNEs’ CSR activities. CSR is not only integrated into the organisation's core strategy but is also reflected in daily organisational activities. IHRM can proactively explore other ways to meet the needs of businesses and communities (Horak & Paik, 2022). IHRM practices are most suitable for executing those activities. IHRM allows MNEs have the space to develop some SDGs by providing security in the workplace and social protection of the family, giving better prospects for personal development and social integration (Song, 2022). Specific practices include providing entertainment and living facilities for employees and their families, providing education and training and expatriate exchange opportunities for future employees to enhance the cultural identity of local employees with the company, and actively participating in social welfare activities. Also, IRHM can act actively in building cross-sector partnerships (Edwards, Almond, Murray, & Tregaskis, 2022). For example, the HR department contacts local nonprofit organisations and industry associations to form partnerships by sponsoring a social project, such as facilitating branch companies to partner with local universities to provide internships for students who need specialised skills. 

    IHRM practice can also play a promotional role in the CSR implementation process. IRHM promote the implementation of employee oriented IHRM practices through employee participation in decision-making processes and freedom of association and collective bargaining (Song, 2022). More specifically, IHRM will plan and implement employee-oriented practices corresponding to the CSR activities conducted in different areas, such as encouraging employees to participate in company management and proposing rationalisation and localisation of CSR of subsidiaries. HR departments can link key issues such as reducing general turnover rates, reducing hiring costs in different regions, and attracting top talent from various countries. The issues and employees' comments are then escalated to the headquarters, and solutions are provided.  

    Meanwhile, IRHM will also provide internal oversight and audit of how MNEs companies participate in CSR activities. MNEs corporations monitor the implementation of codes of conduct in a variety of ways, with oversight through internal corporate personnel being the most common (Horak & Paik, 2022). IRHM will assess and anticipate the social responsibility needs of all corporate stakeholders and anticipate the positive and negative outcomes they may produce. IRHM will participate in the inspection of the company's implementation of laws and regulations and company rules and regulations involving the vital interests of employees, according to the demands of employees in different countries for wages, benefits, and working environment. Also, IRHM will also regularly supervise and inspect the implementation of the wages, welfare, labour protection, social insurance and other systems of employees of each branch company (Kemper et al., 2018). Compare the current situation of corporate social responsibility performance with the social responsibility needs of stakeholders, and IRHM continuously monitor the company's CSR activities to contribute to the sustainable development of corporate social responsibility. 

    The establishment of effective IHRM practices is particularly important, but the limitations and further development of the role of IHRM in the current situation cannot be ignored. The most notable of these issues is that CSR activities depend on national circumstances (Song, 2022). For example, the United States defines the institutional framework for CSR, while Europe provides formal, mandatory and written rules or laws for CSR, while most developing countries are still passively accepting or still lack definitions (Song, 2022; Maier & Gilbert, 2022). MNEs need to respond to global CSR and consider different local CSRs simultaneously, such as the rights and interests of employees of MNEs and consider business ethics in the global value chain . IHRM. 's participation will further face those additional challenges. Meanwhile, Although the role of IRHM has been expanded and divided into specific areas such as EDI, electronic data interchange, green human resource management, external relations, exploration in these fields still lack the support of MNEs (Song, 2022; Rao-Nicholson & Liou, 2022). Therefore, there is still a lot of spaces for IHRM development in disciplining the ethical behaviour of companies in different countries and linking CSR activities to many SDGs.


**References**
- Chakraborty, M., & Das, S. K. (2022). Impact of CSR in Brand Equity as a Marketing Tool: A Study on Registered Medium Enterprises of Consumer Durables in Kolkata, West Bengal. In Finance, Law, and the Crisis of COVID-19 (pp. 77-87). Springer, Cham.
- Du, S., Bhattacharya, C. B., & Sen, S. (2007). Reaping relational rewards from corporate social responsibility: The role of competitive positioning. International journal of research in marketing, 24(3), 224-241.
- Edwards, T., Almond, P., Murray, G., & Tregaskis, O. (2022). International human resource management in multinational companies: Global norm making within strategic action fields. Human Resource Management Journal, 32(3), 683-697.
- Isac, N., Dobrin, C., Raphalalani, L. P., & Sonko, M. (2021). Does organizational culture influence job satisfaction? A comparative analysis of two multinational companies. Revista de Management Comparat International, 22(2), 138-157.
- Kostova, T., Nell, P. C., & Hoenen, A. K. (2018). Understanding agency problems in headquarters-subsidiary relationships in multinational corporations: A contextualized model. Journal of Management, 44(7), 2611-2637.
- Learn.https://www.learn.ed.ac.uk/ultra/courses/_100105_1/cl/outline
- Lee, J. M., Paik, Y., Horak, S., & Yang, I. (2022). Turning a liability into an asset of foreignness: Managing informal networks in Korea. Business Horizons, 65(3), 351-364.
- Maier, A. L., & Gilbert, D. U. (2022). Deliberating with the Autocrats? A Case Study on the Limitations and Potential of Political CSR in a Non-Democratic Context. Journal of Business Ethics, 1-22.
- Rao-Nicholson, R., & Liou, R. S. (2022). The Cultural Mosaic of Corporate Social Responsibility: MNEs’ Role in Attaining Sustainable Development Goals. The New Frontiers of International Business, 345-359.
- Sen, S., Bhattacharya, C. B., & Korschun, D. (2006). The role of corporate social responsibility in strengthening multiple stakeholder relationships: A field experiment. Journal of the Academy of Marketing science, 34(2), 158-166.
- Song, J. W. (2022a). Week 3: Global staffing and International assignment [PowerPSoint slides]. Blackboard Learn. https://www.learn.ed.ac.uk/ultra/courses/_100105_1/cl/outline 
- Song, J. W. (2022b). Culture and International HRM/ Cross-culture management [PowerPoint slides]. Blackboard Learn. https://www.learn.ed.ac.uk/ultra/courses/_100105_1/cl/outline 
- Song, J. W. (2022c). Week 5:HRM practice transfer and implementation in MNEs [PowerPoint slides]. Blackboard 
- Turner, J. C., & Oakes, P. J. (1986). The significance of the social identity concept for social psychology with reference to individualism, interactionism and social influence. British Journal of Social Psychology, 25(3), 237-252.

